# On curving and softening digital lines
## Jan 5, 2022

The screen of my phone curves around the edges and the hard line between the digital and physical does not seem as defined as it does in the old rectangle of my laptop screen or the square of the ad billboard outside my bus. In my room, the rectangular pane of white indicates a snowstorm, and the brown wooden panels that meet it, the warmth of my confinement. 

More people are wearing circular smart watches with perfectly black OLED screens, thin white symbols riding atop them as if to barely peak into our world from the depth of digital logic. My mom’s e-ink screen doesn’t seem to protrude at all but captures her mind in its world.

I’ve been setting my projector at odd angles and into the corners of walls where the light becomes an unpredictable polygon triptych. If propped up just right I can get it to drench the wall in color and now forest films seem to extrude from all angles, sometimes from a single point and at odd times past the middle of the night I project only lines or words on an empty alpha channel so symbols conspire on the ceiling as I dream.

Developers conceive virtual reality as a creation *ex nihilo,* a reality built out of void from triangles and primary colors flashing sterile and facile simplified thoughts that head away from here to outer space or the nowhere of pulses and numbers. This is a dualism without the need for eyes, or earth, where we throw on our goggles, then take them off to return to our tenements. So learn to code shift, to adopt avatars, to cease to be your fleshy face at prescribed hours. It’s not radical to say this isn’t what any of us want, so if you struggle like me to understand where these billions are flowing to and feel the need to flow too down that bitstream, know that the digital will never have a fresh stream to drink from or a tree to climb and I think it will be too late before we realize that that world can’t extract this one or copy it, a better aim is to goad it here and learn to blend its contours into our own.